1. Foundational Phrase
Create a Foundational Phrase to build your story, humor, activities on and to drive home.
Make it short, clear, and memorable
‘Short’ (i.e., fewer than ten words) is for your own benefit: being short means being clear
Example (and good advice): Don’t get ready, stay ready
Use it as a touchstone for what else to include: if it supports your message, you can keep it
It is also what people will take away from your message


2. Tap, Tease, and Transport
Make your audience curious so they will want to come along, so they are excited to hear your point.
1. Get into the audience’s minds with a question or statement -- make it about them
2. Tease them to create a desire to know more, but withhold slightly
3. Transport them into your story -- don’t announce it (e.g., ‘listen to my story’), sneak into it, where the answer will be revealed


3. Callbacks
Call back to anything in your speech (or even in previous speeches, or agenda, as with Nic’s presentation at RC). Deepen your connection, show you are in their heads, make them laugh. Can call back to things they are not aware of, but ground yourself in their town, morning, or experience. Call back to previous point/foundational phrase. Call back to your main point.


4. Reflection
Get audience to think about themselves and how they will use our advice to improve their lives. Pick something out of your story, then ask audience a question about it. When you make your audiences reflect, you have the greatest effect.
 
5. Speak to One, but Look to All
Common mistake. Don’t use ‘some of you’/’many of you’/’each and every one of you’; just use ‘you’.


6. Dialogue is the Heart
Hook is conflict, but heart is dialogue (not narration). Reaction tells the story. Dialogue lets you add vocal variety. But if you use only dialogue, you’ll sound like a stage-play. If you use only narration, you sound like a news reporter. Mix both with ‘story step-out’ -- in dialogue, look back and forth as you speech for each character. Turn eyes toward audience, and even take a step toward them to indicate you’re stepping away from the story , ‘What do you want to do?’]


7. Your Introduction
Don’t talk about yourself. Talk about your audience and what they will get out of it. Use the intro to set up. It’s not about you, it’s for them.


8. When you squeeze your information in, you squeeze your audience out
Don’t try to cram too much in. 10:1: for every 10 minutes, make 1 major point.


9. The Most Important Word in Speaking
You is the most important word. WIIFY. Eliminate ‘Today I’d like to share…’. ‘It’s not about what I give, it’s about what you get’. Do ‘you-focused check-ins’. Keep their interest while talking, remind them that you are there for their benefit.


10. Don’t Add Humor; Uncover it
Dialogue is funny.


11. Most People Don’t Want to be Most People
People want to be unique. ‘Most people do X, but masterful people do Y.’ Push and pull.


12. Conflict is the Hook
The hook for any speech is a story, conflict is the hook for the story. ‘Pre-ramble’. ‘The quicker the better’. Establish the conflict, then escalate.


13. 8 Keys to handling Q and A
Build your credibility instead
Never close your speech with Q&A.
Set expectations about number of questions or duration of session. Mention that you will wrap up after Q&A. [Compare to The Art of Gathering.]
1. Don’t ask, ‘Do you have any questions?’. Ask an open-ended question: ‘What questions do you have?’
2. Let audience know at the beginning that you’ll be taking questions at the end. Give them time to think of them.
3. Rephrase the questions: affirm querant, repeat for audience to hear, gives you time to formulate response
4. Frame your responses -- ‘There are three strategies…’
5. Keep answers brief -- anticipate questions and prepare answers in advance. The longer you take to answer, the faster they stop believing you.
6. Call on every region, not just friendlies.
7. Acknowledge importance or validity of questions, sometimes.
8. Occasionally ask, Does that make sense?


14. Come Out with a Bang
‘I want to thank…’, ‘I’m so glad to be here…’ -- avoid ‘Unpleasant Pleasantries’. ‘We don’t need a weather report, most of us were just outside!’. ‘Do something unexpected, but not uncalled for’.
Three ways to start: story, question, curious statement (make them curious) and callback. 
Keep your audience involved.
Use the ‘sitcom approach’ -- cold open first, then opening credits and theme song.


15. Check the VAKS
Stories require scenes, and scenes require immersive details of all types. VAKO checklist: Visual, auditory, kinesthetic and olfactory.
Two caveats: Do it quickly so you can get to the conflict. Try to make it more pedestrian than purple.
‘People won’t remember what you say as much as they’ll remember what they see when you say it.’ Use gestures to highlight points (Number 1), or even to ‘mean’ each of the points in your speech. This makes them stickier, and lets you communicate with gestures.


16. Put the Process, Not the Person, On A Pedestal
‘When you lift yourself up, you let your audience down’. Connect with your audience by sharing failures, flaws, firsts, frustrations, fears (Five(?) Fs). You can also find humor (the Funny) in these F’s. The last thing you want your audience to think is that you are special. You want them to think that you are similar. This is a special process from a similar person that will lead to special results. Make your audiences TALL: Think, Act, Laugh, Learn.


17. Discuss and Debrief
Raise audience energy and engagement by ‘giving oil’: Ask them to discuss for a time limit. Ask them to shout out answers. (They already got validation.) Went from listening mode to thinking mode: ‘If they say it [part of your message], they buy it’. Better than give, better than ask: get group to come up with your answers.


18. 5 Keys for Using Statistics for Maximum Impact
1. ‘Don’t drop stats off, drive them home’; make them measurable by the listener. "Ten years is enough time for two PhDs."
2. Use stats within a story. [Rule of three: read three books on a topic.]
3. A story will outdo a stat every time -- relate to one person. ‘Story brings emotion, stat brings logic’.
4. Point us to the source: state source, page, sentence location -- make it visual/build credibility (you actually read it); gives audience reason to follow up thanks to you (you want to have impact).
5. Use stats for personal involvement -- ‘half will give up’.


19. Make a Big Promise
What is the most important sentence; introduce it after the initial opening story. What will they get out of your presentation. Turn it around as in point 5. Test it out on some people to see if it passes, ‘Who cares?’ test. It’s also a barometer/touchstone: keep in whatever supports your big promise.


20. Give Your Characters a Hint
People buy in to what they help create. Give a hint as to what your main characters look like, but let the audience fill in the rest, so they help create it and so relate to it. Give a hint in dialogue, you don’t have to leave your story. Or, use an ‘adjective name’: Mr. Burly. Or use your voice and posture.


21. Watch Where You’re Stepping
Don’t step on your laugh lines. Let people laugh fully, let them think. Give them space. Don’t move too much either. Your audience wants to be heard too.


22. 4 As for Anchors
What’s loose [not tied to anything], will be lost. Never give a point by itself, always include an anchor. Use a story to illustrate. Four A’s: Anecdote, Activity, Analogy, Acronym (or 4 As). Use them all in a longer speech. Keep energy high. Make rhyming phrases: What’s tight stays in sight.


23. Transition Teasers
What is the glue? The Transition Tease. Two approaches: Silver spoon approach (big promise of all benefits if they follow next point). Verbal knife approach: twist the knife for some problem the audience is having. Carrot/stick.


24. The Visual Before the Verbal
Make the relevant expression in response before the verbal response, just like in a conversation, to bring the scene to life and make it funnier. Do it with the most important lines of dialogue. ‘Reactions tell the story’.


25. Always Sell the Result (the Story) and Use the EDGE Formula
Don’t sell products, services, or ideas. Sell results using EDGE. (‘But first!’, a story.) What motivates people? Esteem, Do more, Gain more, Enjoy more (compare to Maslow!). Promise results from all four categories.


26. Give a Technique
‘I get paid for what happens after I leave’ -- for the long-term effect on the audience. Give technique, not theory. Tie the metaphors together: white car, drive, taken for a ride. When they use your technique, they think of you. Practice mentally, write down three things you accomplished, Weekly Improvement Plans, plan at the end your day. Offer something practical for every theoretical point.


27. Then, Now, and How
How bad was I then? Make it emotional using language.
Fast forward to now and present current state.
Present a mystery: What made the difference? Let your audience guess.
Package the difference.
Showmanship: Walk back to the then part of the stage and show progress physically. Explain how rough the road was to now, where everything is great.
Are they buying the product? No, they are buying the result, being great.


28. Being specific = being memorable
Avoid vague/fuzzy words. Choose specific words, especially for time, weight, place. Paint a picture. It also makes your speech more credible: it’s a special date, you took the time to check.


29. If You Are Always Dynamic, You Are No Longer Dynamic
Low, slow, dull is sometimes good to avoid sameness -- difference can be refreshing.


30. 3 Keys to Closing your Speech with Great Impact
1. Signal that you’re closing, this catches their attention again.
2. Call back to main points. If possible, get them to say your points (cf. point 20)
3. Finish with a bang. Tell a story that gives hope that your tools/techniques/process will work for them.
Four Rs: Face Reality, Relinquish barriers, Rely on change, and Reform to better ways (change small and change all, what gets recorded gets rewarded, make people visible, ...). Video example here.


31. Milk the Moment
Take advantage of spontaneous moments. Uses ‘A lot of people…, but the most effective speakers...’ formula. If something unexpected happens, embrace it. Pay attention to your audience to find points that make this talk unique. You can create this by bringing an audience member up on stage, ask them to answer questions out loud, or walk into the audience.


32. Have Them Say It
Cf. points 20 and 30. ‘When we say it, they can doubt us. But when they say it, it’s true to them.’ -- Tom Hopkins. Speaking is sales, we are selling our message. References The Law of Consistency. ‘You got the message, but what about the motivation’. ‘Use your unique gifts, set your guide and go’.


33. Establish a Roadmap
Come out with a bang (14), make a big promise (19), and offer a roadmap. Let them know why they are there and where they are going. I’m going to give you four Rs (point 30), Number them, state them all up front, acronyms, give locations: elements/delivery/you-ville, use a metaphor.


34. Let your past audience write your future speech
Your audience will give you your best speech material. Record every speech you give, at least with audio. Do A/B testing with audiences. Tweak it -- you don’t have to be 100% literal.


35. Get Their Two Locations
Understand and exceed your audience’s needs. Find their two locations: Where are they now? Where do they want to go? Send a questionnaire in advance. People will answer in person what they won’t right down. What’s your biggest pain? What’s that costing you? Get them to give evidence/examples to get to Where are they now? Ask, ideally, what would you like to see change? Magic wand/perfect world questions. Use the exact words they give you. ‘What doesn’t fit is a misfit, and misfits don’t get invited back’.


36. Use the Rule of 3
Three is a magic number. Funnier, clearer, more memorable. Funny: the third provides a twist. Clearer: Make three sections, even if there are more subpoints. 


37. If You Take Us Through the Problem, Take Us Through the Payoff
Ask yourself and explain to your audience: What happened after I transcended the conflict? How did my life change for the better? How did I feel after I overcame that conflict?


38. Never Close with the Question and Answers Period
(Point 13, and The Art of Gathering). Primacy and Recency: They remember best what they hear first and last. End with your own message. Nothing else new, see point 13!


39. Key to Using PowerPoint
Don’t create the slides first; create your message first. Not everything needs slides. ‘You competed with yourself and they lost’. ‘If your PowerPoint slides say everything you say, one of you isn’t needed’. What to keep/delete:
Keep if it helps clarify your audience’s understanding of the concept


Delete if…
it says the same thing that you’re about to say
it has bullet points
it’s there strictly for entertainment purposes
it’s there to help you, the speaker, remember what comes next
it has useless and irrelevant graphics and pictures on it


Use the B button to blank out the screen when you are making important points.


40. Options for Answers
Think of questions. Anticipate answers. Think of comebacks for each. Practice. (‘Planned spontaneity’). [Don’t be obnoxious like this, though…] Your audience wants to be heard, too -- they chime in when not wanted, they will appreciate the chance to participate. Don’t do this toward the beginning of the talk, build trust first.


41. Invite them into your reliving room
Don’t retell it, relive it. Bring your audience into the scene -- ask yourself where you will place them.


42. Scan and Stop
Make eye contact with 50 people or fewer (!). With larger groups, look at varied sections. Keep people engaged. Build trust. Sometimes look just at one person for an entire thought or phrase. Stop: don’t move much when you deliver your main message -- the contrast will attract even more interest. ‘Hold the gaze for an entire phrase’.


43. 3 Reasons for Moving on Stage
Don’t pace back and forth. Use space to create scenes. When to move: Action, Timeline, or Structure:
1. An action in the story prompts your movement onstage
2. To create a timeline of the floor (left to right for westerners, so opposite as speaker). This allows visual/verbal callbacks by indicating physical spots on the timeline.
3. Make a visible structure for your speech.


44: (Get the Guru to) Give Us the Cure
Storytelling model, the 9 Cs:
Curiosity (throughout, to sustain interest)
Circumstance
Characters
Conversations (dialogue)
Callback
Conflict
Cure (what did the guru teach you?)
Change
Carryout (message the audience takes away)


Get the guru to give the cure, show the battle, and show the payoff.


45. Match and Move
Assess the audience’s energy level, match it to connect, then gradually move it.
How do you assess the audience’s energy? Watch them with previous speaker, listen to response to introduction, get their early and pay attention.


46. Use the BOB Approach for Handouts
BOB = Build on Benefits
Make the benefits stand out in your handout. Make sure your speech is about your audience and what’s in it for them. Give your audience space to write their own thoughts after each benefit. ‘We should not get our audiences to listen and memorize. We should get them to think and realize’. 


47. Give one exact next step
How to convert: ‘A confused mind says No, but a clear mind says Go’.
What one exact next step should your audience take immediately after. It should involve you in some way. Lead with the benefit of taking that step before saying what it is [the feature]. ‘Most speakers’ give lots of options or none. Keep it as simple and clear as possible. Having one next step means your speech can focus on a single outcome.


48. 3 Physical Keys to Building your Connection with your Audience
Have nothing between you and your audience -- be more open to your audience to build trust.
Group your audience members together and move them up front. Wood for fire metaphor -- bring it together to nurture the spark. But get someone else to move the people around, you don’t want your opening to be giving orders/logistics.
Go out into audience during speech -- build a connection, call on individuals, have a conversation.
[Keep the room a little cooler…]


49. No Phrase No Stage
How to develop your foundational phrase (cf. point 1)
Practice in front of a test audience, e.g. Toastmasters. Ask your audience what they got out of your talk. Put it on blog/social media and see what kind of comments you get. The rest of the points are a rehash of point 1.


50. Create a mess and then a message
‘A message is a mess with age’. Start with everything relevant, then edit down to the essence through testing in informal situations/normal conversations. Keep fine tuning it.


51. The PARTS Formula
TALL: Think, Act, Laugh, Learn
Test every point in your speech against PARTS:
(Foundational) Phrase -- ‘Your phrase determines what stays’
Anchor -- Four As above, every point gets an anchor
Reflect -- Get audience to think about their own situation: ‘So let me ask you, what do you…’
Technique -- What can they do next? Give the audience a technique to use and you will continue helping them even after the speech.
Sale -- Explain what happens when the audience follows your advice, re-sell the benefit.


52. Tell a Story and Make a Point
Tell a story and make a point. This is the most important lesson.
Tell your story in the first person, and make it either about you or something you’ve witnessed. First person gives you credibility and connection.
Don’t be the guru of your own stories. Play the role of the learner, give others credit. This makes you ‘similar’, not special.
Give your other characters the best lines.
Brag (build credibility/show social proof) through others via dialogue.
[Asks us to envisage using his tools to become a more successful speaker: cf. Made to Stick.]
‘The primary goal of every story is to elicit emotion’. Lift audience, then let them down (+/- of screenwriting).
Recording of applause ‘for you’ at the end!


http://50speakingsecrets.com/