Presentation Zen notes


Three sections: Prep, Design, and Delivery
Reduce suffering, connect with your audience
Pink ideas: Design, Story, Symphony (logic + synthesis + intuition; a kind of essentialism), Empathy, Play, Meaning
Seth: Slides reinforce words (don’t repeat/read out loud), good images, no animation, handouts (for detail, after)
Mentions Understanding Comics
Aim for simplicity, balance, and beauty
Connect, share emotion
This is creative work -- be “whole minded (Pink)”
Take chances
If You Want to Write by Barbara Ueland
Be a pirate, be a lion, be free
Don’t be afraid of downtime, be idle
Be enthusiastic
Work with restrictions -- John Maeda: More constraints are better
Simple like bonsai -- use your theme as a touchstone for removing stuff
Pecha kucha as example of useful constraints: 20x20=60
“Planalog”: Plan in analog, away from your computer
Slow down, step back, spend time alone to think creatively
p. 63, the questions: What is your point? Why does it matter?
Robert McKee on screenwriting
Stories persuade, create interest, make memorable, engage action
Highlight contrasts
List on p. 88
Don’t memorize your story/presentation -- internalize it
Speak in a natural, conversational way
Create bumper slides in a different color; other suggestions on process p. 100
Limit detail when brainstorming; use small post-its to make sure you are simple and clear
Make your point easy to understand
Think about information hierarchy
Define simplicity: maximum effect with minimum means
Naturalness/restraint
Shibumi, wabi sabi, less is more
Amplification through simplification
Not, “eliminate detail” but “focus on specific detail”
Signal-to-noise: subtle distinctions, like minimal pairs + Occam’s Razor
“picture superiority”: people remember pictures better; let words and pictures reinforce
use empty/negative space
“What words can I replace with an image?”
Tom Peters Presentation Excellence
Design elements: Contrast, Repetition, Alignment, Proximity
Remove logos
You can quote things, but keep it short
Make on language subordinate in multilingual situations
If you use people, have the people gaze at your text
Guide the viewer’s eye like a movie director (illustration advice)
Use asymmetry to introduce dynamism
Gather a lot of information and share it
Use a grid
Use rule of thirds
3x3 grid has “power points” at intersections
Create a visual style unique to you and identifiable by others (Orson Welles quote)
Lots of ways to create contrast: color, type, size, light/dark, cool/warm, near/far
Make contrast extreme (or the minimum? laut Tufte)
Repetition for consistency, repetition with variation to avoid boredom
Alignment -- use grid
Proximity/grouping
Use full-bleed images
Takahashi method: Big words
Detach from technique and outcome (immovable mind/fudoshin)
Be present at your presentation -- meditation helps
Believe in your message, engage with your audience
A presentation is a performance, you are an artist
Ask, “What is my contribution?”
Lighten up/be permeable
Practice hard
You don’t have to be likable
Open with a bang: PUNCH: Personal,Unexpected, Novel, Challenging, Humorous
If technology doesn’t work, continue anyway
You should know your points well enough to continue without slides
Do you preparation away from the computer
You have 1-2 minutes of “Honeymoon” to win your audience over
Audience wants you to succeed
Don’t apologize, don’t self deprecate or mention nerves -- these things are self focused, and you want to be audience focused
Don’t start with an agenda slide -- if you want to create a framework for the talk, be more creative
Dress the part
Stand, move in a relaxed, confident way
Connect with eye contact, smile
Put energy into your voice
Use a mic for >30 people
Finish a little early
Leave them wanting more
Manipulate emotion to enhance memory (emotion is primitive memory)
People naturally mirror you, so be relaxed, open, confident, smiley
Make your audience curious
Engagement is about your ideas, not about your tools
Webinar tips p. 262
p. 264 good arguments for no lectern
Make the screen blank when needed
Steve Jobs notes p. 267
Get close to the audience -- physically and with language and technology
Use a remote control
Sketch it out away from your screen
Who are you talking to?
What do you want to say?
How can you help them?